>> Jem Young: That is the end,
we have learned automated deployments,
we learned about databases,
we learned about containers.
This link slide is empty cuz I will
fill with whatever questions or
things you want more resources to.
I'll look them up,
try to find some quality ones.
>> Speaker 2: If you're gonna talk about
maintainability.
>> Jem Young: I can talk about
Not related to this course, but
I'm very passionate about it.
I was in Brazil JS maybe
about a month ago, and
I was speaking and
I have a whole talk on maintainability.
Well, it's called Zen and
the Art of Code Maintenance,
cuz at the end of the day, all I care
about it is running maintainable code.
People say I want to be fast, I want to be
sexy, I wanted to use the newest things.
I just care about it being maintainable
because I'm gonna be the one that
has to fix it.
So one of the most heated things,
most contentious things that I said was
that you need to comment your code.
And so many people came out to
me afterwards and they're like,
what do you mean?
I don't have to comment my code, I read
this book by some person and they said,
good code is self documenting.
I've heard that so many times.
And I disagree.
You don't have to comment on every line
on your code, but it's a general rule.
Comment your code,
always comment your code.
Yeah, a lot of people disagreed
with that very strongly.
I don't comment my code.
I don't know if it's laziness or
huberous or what it is, but
I'm not that smart to remember where
my brain was at six months ago.
So I wrote a comment just
saying here's why I did this.
That's it.
But.
>> Speaker 3: Are you mostly thinking
about commenting on certain parts of
your code that somebody else might not
understand, or is it just like,
>> Speaker 3: Like a bookmark,
just a reminder kind of thing?
>> Jem Young: Yeah,
it's things that if it took me probably
more then a few seconds to reason about,
it's probably worth commenting for
future me.
I mean forget everybody else,
I care about future me, my laziness and
my ability to go back and fix that.
Things that should always be common,
regular expressions.
Always comment your regular expressions.
Not everyone has the same skill level on
quickly partitioning regular expression.
But if you said, hey this is an email
validation regular expression, that's so
much faster than let me copy and
paste this into some regular expression
break down which may or may not tell
me what it's doing in the long run.
That's an easy one.
What else should be commented?
Don't comment your variable names all
the time, but that's like overboard.
Not every line but in general.
If it took you time then reason about,
it's worth putting a comment in there,
helps just about what's happening.
So that's our answer for maintainability.
[LAUGH] It's comment your code,
it's like the easiest one,
yes.
>> Speaker 4: What's your recommendation
on the tools that will enable
developer develop something for
the mobile apps, like Ionic framework.
>> Jem Young: Or Cordova for jobs,
things like that.
I don't really have recommendations.
That's not my strong suit.
We recently had a very long debates,
at least on my team about,
do we go React Native or
do we go Native Native.
And it's still up in the air.
The thing is writing JavaScript,
it's a very friendly language.
Lots of JavaScript developers out
there versus Android developers.
It's much harder,
I think to find a good Android developer.
So React Native is really appealing
as far as writing a native app today.
And I know a lot of people
are using React Native today.
But I do lean slightly
towards Native Native.
Because at the end of the day,
there is functionality in React Native
that you're just not going to get.
But here's what I always say for
everything.
Do whatever's best for you.
If you don't want to use Vim and
you want to use emax, do that too.
I'd never tell you what to do, I'd just
tell you how to think about it and
are you solving the right problem.
Let's say, do I want to use Ubuntu or
Fedora instead of Ubuntu?
Do that too.
Like, we're just using Ubuntu.
So as far as what tool to use as for
building a mobile app,
do whatever's fast for you.
Like I said,
I don't have much recommendations.
But I do know that React Native
is very popular, and
it's doing quite well because it's
half React and half actual code,
like Native code, which makes it load
faster than some of the alternatives.
Yes, any other questions?
Throw it up there.
>> Speaker 5: Yeah, could you talk about
services workers a little bit cuz you
kept, I mean I have looked into them.
Actually saw Steve and
I can't remember the other guys name.
Took a Master's course on it.
>> Jem Young: Yeah.
>> Speaker 5: And it was awesome.
What resources do you use to.
>> Jem Young: For
service workers?
>> Speaker 5: Yeah,
I mean can you just talk a little
bit about it for people who don't.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, so
everybody kind of know service worker,
heard of it?
So have you heard of a web worker?
Okay, just quick high level recap.
Web worker is it's
the best we have currently
to do multithreading in JavaScript.
It's not multithreading, but
we can run a computational expense of work
in a totally separate thread on CPU
that won't block the rendering.
I have a whole presentation on this but
okay, JavaScript.
Single threaded.
It has one thread.
That's how we have to know about async and
callbacks and things like that because
it's just one thread running over and
over and over again.
Included in that thread is the ability
to render the user interface.
So when someone clicks
that has to get rendered.
But that's all in the same thread that's
happening that's processing your CSS,
processing your JavaScript,
processing everything.
A web worker is way to offload some very
expensive work that will lock the thread
into a separate thread and then when
it's done working it just sends it back.
That's what a web worker is.
So the difference between a web worker and
a service worker is,
the service worker is, once you install
it, the service worker is still there.
It's persistent, it doesn't go away
unless you manually delete it.
Whereas the web worker, once you close
the browser, the web worker is gone.
The whole process shutdown.
The powerful thing about service worker
being there persistent, it can read and
write through a cache and it can intercept
request story off from your browser.
So all the thing we did
with different caching,
I could do that with a service worker.
It's a bit, I won't say easier.
There's different mechanisms for caching.
That's a powerful thing about service
worker because I can create an entire
offline application.
It doesn't have to make any calls
to the server, it just works.
>> Speaker 5: And in your eyes,
does that kind of replace some of
the stuff you're doing with caching and
headers?
Or is there a place for them to coexist?
>> Jem Young: I think there is a place for
them to coexist.
Like we did with the expire centers,
you don't always want to do that.
Sometimes you want your
data to always be fresh.
You don't always want to cache
all your work on the server.
The service worker is a good way of
saying I want to build our application we
just built, but
I want to make it work offline.
Then the service worker is
a great way to do that,
because there are no server calls.
That need to be done if you load
up your resources correctly.
But to do that you need to use you
have to have HPS enabled which we do.
And the one powerful thing about servers
which we haven't really talked about is
server push.
It's fairly complex but it's
the ability to push data to the client.
I can update your cache
even if the browser,
isn't open even if you're
not on my website.
Just I'm on my phone chilling next
time you come to Jem.party I can have
a fresh copy of that data and
you don't have to do that for
you it does that in the background for
you.
That's a nit more complex because as you
can imaging the ability to push arbitrary
data to the client is very,
very, very dangerous.
If someone got a hold of that
you can do some nasty work, but
that's one of the strongest things
about service workers right now.
That's why I'm a big fan of them.
You can also do things because it
intercepts all of your requests going
out and coming in.
You can parse data for them.
I can return data arbitrarily, if I want.
I can kinda do whatever I want.
It's like the last bit
of control you have.
If we control the file,
we control the server, and
now we control the browser a bit that
was coming in and out of the page.
So I was talking for like a year in
2015 or so, 2016, on service worker,
so I can go on all day though.
>> Speaker 5: What'd you use to learn
about that?
>> Jem Young: Trial and error.
A lot of trial and error.
When I was doing it there wasn't
all the resources there are now.
Now Google's pretty solid.
>> Speaker 5: Just like their articles and
docs.
>> Jem Young: There's lots of articles and
docs but when I was doing a lot
of stuff was undocumented.
It's just trying it, failing,
trying it, failing and then learning.
Mozilla has serviceworkers, so service
workers, as a cookbook of useful recipes.
Now if you're talking
about serviceworke.rs,
the stuff they have in
there is pretty advanced.
But now that you have HTTPS you can
run a service worker just fine, and
you can start implementing
things like that.
But I encourage you to look at service
workers, I think they're very powerful,
probably one of the more
powerful tools to come out.
Since Ajax every Ajax,
the thing that lets you
load data in without refreshing the page,
its pretty cool.
But yeah, that's what service worker ran.
>> Speaker 6: Another
kind of rule of thumb question.
>> Jem Young: Yeah.
>> Speaker 6: Pertaining to containers,
I'm guessing your average brochure
website or whatever, not super useful.
In your experience is there a tipping
point in terms of features at which point
it makes sense to begin looking
at containers [INAUDIBLE].
>> Jem Young: Yeah, for
one I'd say if your company architecture
is structured in a way that you're
using micro services, that tends
to lend itself well to containers.
Micro services are of course
just individual time services
running instead of a model with a stack.
Make sense?
Everybody, micro services, yeah.
So instead of like one
massive Django stack,
I could run a bunch of
little node application,
a bunch of flask applications that only do
one thing, that's micro services for you.
I'd say if you use a lot of micro
services and you need to scale broadly,
it's a good way to go.
The downside of containers are the more
complex you make your deployments,
the more things that can go wrong.
Because you're just adding more and
more complexity to your entire stack.
Some people don't like containers for that
reason cuz it's just easier to bring up,
just Ubuntu server.
With everything you need for
the vagrant script or nacipal script and
everything like that.
It's just as easy.
And if you don't have a lot of high, like
down time is not a big deal for you or
you just have good deploys or
good fail overs, then containers
are probably a better way to go.
But again, the deeper you go,
the more complex you go.
So we're running Ubuntu.
It's not necessarily the fastest
version of Linux but
it's probably the most user friendly.
We could run something like RedHat,
which is Enterprise Linux
which is much much faster.
It's optimized for these things but
it's not as friendly.
And that's kind of the trade off
you always make is you want speed,
you want efficiency but
you also want full tolerance and
things not to go wrong horribly for you.
But, good question.
>> Speaker 7: The front end put a lot of
thought into how to manage state.
Is there an equivalent
to that on the backend?
>> Jem Young: Can you explain it like,
what sort of state?
>> Speaker 7: So as you,
you always want to have either,
you stayed isolated when you mutate it or
it's shared across different
aspects of the application.
I just don't know if there's
an equivalent in the backend.
Or if state is something that's
kind of just for frontend people.
Do you know what I mean?
Yeah it seems like, it seems like if you
had your server you could just restart
your server and then kind of always
control where, if everything's clean and
if there's not gonna be any sort
of unexpected errors occurring but
I just wanted to make sure.
>> Jem Young: That's essentially true.
>> Speaker 7: Okay.
>> Jem Young: One of the hardest
parts when I first started
learning about the web
a long time ago was that it's stateless.
Because for me coming from Java and C #
that's a weird concept of being stateless
what I do now doesn't
necessarily hold on the browser.
The back end is fairly stateful,
as in what you do is gonna persist and
persist and persist unless you take
down the server and start over again.
There is not really an equivalent of that
for thinking about state management.
But now you're talking about
the difference between micro services and
a monolith.
In a monolith it's much easier to keep
track of state because everybody knows
about the state.
It's shared across all of the services
you're gonna use versus micro
services you have to think
much carefully about.
What's the API that's on for my node
servers talking to my logging servers,
things like that, where the logging server
could lose state very, very easily versus,
in the nodes it was like, what happened?
I sent you all these logs just drop them.
That's pretty nuanced,
but does that help at all?
>> Speaker 7: Yeah,
you still have to very carefully
design certain things so
that you're not fucking things up I guess.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, and
that's why like you see
the trends in the Internet.
It was like micro services,
that was probably two years ago.
It's like we are going to micro services.
They didn't need to necessarily,
like a javastack works just fine.
Running rails or jenga works just fine.
Not everybody needs to do micro services,
because again, it's that introduces
complexity of state, how you design
APIs for all these services.
Whereas, a monolith, not as sexy, a bit
harder to maintain over the long period
of time, but it all works, you don't
have to worry about things like that.
Great questions!
Anything else?
Anything about computers?
NetFlix?
I'll tell you everything I know,
things I don't know.
>> Speaker 8: Heard that they only hire
senior engineers.
Is that true?
>> Jem Young: In a way.
So everybody at Netflix that's
an engineer is a senior engineer.
Like we only have one role.
It's a very flat structure.
So it's basically, I can tell you the
whole structure, that's how easy it is.
It's [INAUDIBLE], manager,
director, VP, probably another VP.
There's like senior VP and then
there's like c levels, this like that.
And that's it,
that's the entire Netflix structure there.
So if you're hired at Netflix,
you are a senior engineer.
Just graduated college,
that's pretty unusual for
us to hire someone with no experience.
But you're senior and the benefit
of this I prefer over things like
he's a tech lead, she's a senior
architect things like that is that when
everybody's the same level,
I have to listen to what you say.
I would do that anyways, but you have
to acknowledge what you say versus
if someone say a junior engineer,
I'll be who are you?
A junior engineer, I'm not gonna listen
to your suggestion, what do you know?
And that's an attitude
a lot of people have.
So when everybody is the same, it makes
everybody's opinion equally valued,
which I really really enjoy.
So it doesn't matter if
you been there five years,
it doesn't matter if
you've been there a day.
You're all senior engineers.
Yeah, yeah, all right, yes.
>> Speaker 9: So
I was gonna ask what kind of,
you mentioned like there're trade-offs and
more monolithic structure versus my micro
services, what would you look at to
sort of determine what architecture
makes sense for a given company?
>> Jem Young: Yeah, great question.
So how would I determine if I wanna
use a monolith versus microservices?
I would look at the programming
skills of the team.
That's kind of an unusual question,
but what are they good at?
Facebook saw that, when they started,
they had a bunch of PHP developers.
PHP was much more popular back then,
and it's still pretty popular.
But they're saying well PHP's maybe not
most efficient thing we want to use.
So they wrote a compiler that compiles
PHP to C or C++, I forget which one.
The compiler.
And that's an instance of knowing
the seals of your team and
knowing what they're showing at.
Nowadays a lot people do JavaScripts,
and some people are really good at it.
And if you're doing that you can be like
hey I can write an entire monolith in node
or I can make a bunch
of tiny node services.
It's kind of the strength of your team.
Where is the business
gonna go in the future?
Do you want something
that's easily maintainable?
So if we all know node let's just make
a monolith out of node because we all
understand how that works.
Or if we're gonna grow in the future so
we say, the part that logs transactions,
we're gonna make a lot of money really
processing credit card transactions.
Maybe that's for your micro servers cuz we
can scale that out as opposed to having to
scale the entire monolith,
even though it's only one
portion that needs to be scaled.
So it's a hard question,
it's really dependent on your business.
But hopefully that helps and guidance.
But as with all things, don't jump
on things because people say so and
cuz it's popular,
make an informed decision.
And then that's as good as we can do for
most things.
Think about it.
>> Jem Young: All right,
if there's no more questions, I will
wrap this up, let me know, I'll throw in
some links at the end to other Frontend
Masters courses about service workers and
bash and things like that.
Send me an email.
Gem@Netflix.com, if you have any trouble,
some people do.
You can Tweet at me, send me a message
on Twitter @JemYoung if you like,
just say hello.
I always appreciate good feedback.
People that say you could have done
this better or I really like this.
My favorite at the people
that finish the course and
now have jobs because of maybe
some portion they learnt.
Or they brought website or
sever because of something they learnt.
That always makes me happy cuz it takes
a long time to put these together so
it's good to know that it's worthwhile.
And if you have any courses
you wanna hear about,
like full stack three
if you wanna do that,
just anything at all something that you
wanna go more in detail, sum it up.
I am here, I'm pretty slow to respond,
but I will respond eventually.
If there are no more
questions, thank you!